Feature/comparison tad tools (#91)
MinBZK/ai-validation: docs/Projects/TAD/tools_comparison.md

# Comparison of tools for transparency of algorithmic decision making

In [tools.md](tools.md) we have researched a few tools which we want to investigate further, this document is the next
step in that investigation. The checklist we will lay these tools against is written down at [index.md](index.md). The
Fulfilled column will give a numerical value based on the priority which can then be compared with the other tools per

> section. The scoring is as follows: {M:4, S:3, C:2, W:1}.

Reviewer: i would make W -1 or -2. The W means it should not be in the product. 
```suggestion
section. The scoring is as follows: {M:4, S:3, C:2, W:-1}.
```

Author: Currently we wouldn't ;) have any would not haves in our checklist but I agree with you here about the scoring and will incorporate it

## Summary of the comparison

| Tool                     | Requirement             | Score |
|:-------------------------|:------------------------|:------|
| AIVerify                 | Functionality           | 36    |
|                          | Reliability             | 13    |
|                          | Usability               | 9.4   |
|                          | Help & Documentation    | 2.8   |
|                          | Performance Efficiency  | 9     |
|                          | Maintainability         | 15.8  |
|                          | Security                | 8.3   |
|                          | Compatibility           | 10.4  |
|                          | Accessibility           | 0     |
|                          | Portability             | 7.5   |
|                          | Deployment              | 1.5   |
|                          | Legal & Compliance      | 19    |

> | VerifyML                 | Functionality           |       |

Reviewer 2: Couldn't we make VerifyML a second column (next to the one already filled for AIVerify)?

Reviewer 2: I was hoping we could do that also for the larger tables below

Author: Then the possibility for comments would not be there though, and i think that is more valuable then a specific number

Author: I want to agree with you, but for me it just is too large of a table to have it all next to each other with the comments :S

total_score = 8.3

### Compatibility

| Requirement                                                                                                                | Priority | Fulfilled | Comments                                                                   |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| The tool is compatible with existing systems and infrastructure.                                                           | M        | 1         | As it is a container it can run on Kubernetes and therefore at Digilab     |
| The tool supports industry-standard data formats and protocols.                                                            | M        | 1         | Most Datasets and Models are supported by the tool                         |

> | The tool operates seamlessly on supported operating systems and hardware platforms.                                        | S        | 0.3       | On Windows and Mac it does not run well out of box                         |

Reviewer: If it is containerized it should be able to run everywhere

# Comparison of tools for transparency of algorithmic decision making

[We have researched](tools.md) a few tools which we want to investigate
further, this document is the next step in that investigation.
We created a [checklist](index.md) to compare these tools against.
The Fulfilled column will give a numerical value based
on the priority which can then be compared with the other tools per section.

> The scoring is as follows: {M:4, S:3, C:2, W:-1}.

Reviewer 3: Arguably, I am nitpicking now, but the description of the way how you score is not complete. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
The scoring is as follows. Each requirement is assigned a value between 0 and a maximum depending on the priority; the maxima are defined as follows {M:4, S:3, C:2, W:-1}.
```

Author: I didn't completely take over your suggestion, but made it for sure more clear. Do you agree with the new one?

# Comparison of tools for transparency of algorithmic decision making

> In [tools.md](tools.md) we have researched a few tools which we want to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[We have researched](tools.md)  a few tools which we want to
```

investigate further, this document is the next step in that investigation.

> The checklist we will lay these tools against is written down at
> [index.md](index.md). The Fulfilled column will give a numerical value based

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We created a [checklist](index.md) to compare these tools against. The Fulfilled column will give a numerical value based
```

on the priority which can then be compared with the other tools per section.
The scoring is as follows: {M:4, S:3, C:2, W:-1}.

## Summary of the comparison

> | Requirement            | AIVerify Score | VerifyML Score | IBM 360 Research Toolkit Score | Holisticai Score | AI Assessment Tool Score |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Requirement            | [AIVerify](aiverify_checklist.md) | [VerifyML](verifyml_checklist.md) | [IBM 360 Research Toolkit](ibm_360_research_toolkit_checklist.md) | [Holisticai](holisticai_checklist.md) | [AI Assessment Tool](ai_assessment_tool_checklist.md) |
```

| Compatibility          | 12.5           | 14             | 14                             | 10               |                          |
| Accessibility          | 0              | 0              | 0                              | 0                |                          |
| Portability            | 7.5            | 4.5            | 5.1                            | 7.5              |                          |
| Deployment             | 1.5            | 0.6            | 1.2                            | 3.6              |                          |
| Legal & Compliance     | 19             | 16             | 16                             | 16               |                          |
| **Total**              | **133.3**      | **120.1**      | **120.7**                      | **108.2**        | ****                     |

The scores are calculated in these individual markdowns
[aiverify_checklist.md](aiverify_checklist.md),
[verifyml_checklist.md](verifyml_checklist.md),
[ibm_360_research_toolkit_checklist.md](ibm_360_research_toolkit_checklist.md),
[holisticai_checklist.md](holisticai_checklist.md),

> [ai_assessment_tool_checklist.md](ai_assessment_tool_checklist.md).

Reviewer 2: Moved this to above

> The scores are calculated in these individual markdowns
> [aiverify_checklist.md](aiverify_checklist.md),
> [verifyml_checklist.md](verifyml_checklist.md),
> [ibm_360_research_toolkit_checklist.md](ibm_360_research_toolkit_checklist.md),
> [holisticai_checklist.md](holisticai_checklist.md),
> [ai_assessment_tool_checklist.md](ai_assessment_tool_checklist.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Moved this to above
